Websites: High density hosting of websites. Allows developers to build sites using ASP.NET, PHP, Node.js, or Python and can be deployed using FTP, Git, Mercurial or Team Foundation Server. This feature was announced in preview form in June 2012 at the Meet Microsoft Azure event.[2] Customers can create websites in PHP, ASP.NET, Node.js, or Python, or select from several open source applications from a gallery to deploy. This comprises one aspect of the Platform as a Service (PaaS) offerings for the Windows Azure Platform. It was renamed to Web Apps in April 2015. http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/app-service/web/
Virtual machines: Let developers migrate applications and infrastructure without changing existing code and can run both Windows Server and Linux virtual machines. Announced in preview form at the Meet Windows Azure event in June 2012[2] the Windows Azure Virtual Machines comprise the Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) offering from Microsoft for their public cloud. Customers can create Virtual Machines, of which they have complete control, to run in the Microsoft Data Centers. As of the preview the Virtual Machines supported Windows Server 2008 and 2012 operating systems and a few distributions of Linux. The General Availability version of Virtual Machine was released in May 2013.
Cloud services: Microsoft's Platform as a Service (PaaS) environment can be used to create scalable applications and services. It supports multi-tier architectures and automated deployments. Previously named "Hosted Services", the Cloud Services for Windows Azure comprise one aspect of the PaaS offerings from the Windows Azure Platform. The Cloud Services are containers of hosted applications. These applications can be Internet-facing public web applications (such as web sites and e-commerce solutions), or they can be private processing engines for other work, such as processing orders or analyzing data. Developers can write code for Cloud Services in a variety of different programming languages. There are specific software development kits (SDKs) provided by Microsoft for Python, Java, Node.js and .NET.[3] Other languages may have support through Open Source projects. Microsoft published the source code for their client libraries on GitHub.[4]

Compute Batch
Scheduler
Remote App

Data management: SQL Database, formerly known as SQL Azure Database, works to create, scale and extend applications into the cloud using Microsoft SQL Server technology. It also integrates with Active Directory and Microsoft System Center and Hadoop.[5] SQL Database
Tables
BLOB Storage
Azure Search
Document DB
Redis Cache
StorSimple

Business Analytics SQL Reporting
Data Marketplace
HDInsight Hadoop
Azure Machine Learning - Cloud-based predictive analytics and publishing of APIs on the cloud
Stream Analytics
Event Hubs
Data Factory

Identity Active Directory
Rights Management
Access Control Service
Multi-Factor Authentication

Messaging Microsoft Azure Service Bus
Queues

Media services: A PaaS offering that can be used for encoding, content protection, streaming, and/or analytics.
CDN
Mobile Services
Networking Virtual Network
Express Route
Traffic Manager

Integration Backup
Site Recovery
BizTalk Services

Developer Visual Studio Online
Application Insights

